I have an in-depth Advanced one-hour
grammar lesson for you in which we are
going to cover a variety of topics
prepositions of place could have should
have would have I have a challenging
quiz for you and much more I've taken
some of my best Advanced grammar lessons
and put them together in this one video
Lesson and if you are someone who enjoys
improving your grammar skills Please
Subscribe turn on notifications that way
I can become your teacher my name is Wes
the channel is interactive English it's
all about trying to help you reach your
fluency goals so without further Ado
let's begin with
prepositions which preposition should we
use to complete this sentence in on or
at actually you could use any of them
all of them are correct it really just
depends on the context and that's what I
want to do in today's lesson I want to
break it down for you so that you easily
understand how to use each of these
prepositions when talking about place
and I'm also going to give you a little
bit of a mini quiz at the end to see how
much you've learned also if you'd like
to get a PDF copy of today's lesson just
click on the link Down Below in the
description so let's begin with in and
when you're thinking about in think
about an enclosed space that you are
surrounded on all sides and I I want to
give you some well General ideas as to
when you would use this preposition so
you will use in to talk about locations
within a larger area how many people
live in this town you'll use in with a
car taxi or van if I were to say hey
we're waiting in the car it's used to
talk about workplaces or Industries if
someone asks where do you work I work in
human resources or I work in fashion and
if if if you've seen many of my video
lessons you you know I absolutely do not
work in fashion it's my yeah my
Fashion's pretty bad you would use in
with water let's all get in the pool or
the expression there's plenty of fish in
the sea so again we're talking about the
sea we're talking about water and you
would use this expression to say that
well if somebody's single and they're
looking to have a relationship and find
a partner you're saying this to to
encourage them to keep looking that
there's somebody out there for them
don't give up hope there's plenty of
fish in the sea we use this preposition
with class I'm having trouble paying
attention in class I'm enclosed in this
space and we also use it with printed
materials if you don't know the meaning
of a word you can look it up in the
dictionary and you can think about it
that well that word it's surrounded by
other pages so it's in the dictionary so
just keep these in mind when you're
thinking about in and now let's talk
about on and when you will use this
preposition and when it comes to on I
want you to think about a a surface that
something is attached to or touching
something else so we use on to refer to
the position of something on any surface
your coffee is on the table I found some
money on the sidewalk it's used to talk
about a floor in a building I work on
the seventh floor it also describes the
position along a road or river or or by
the sea or a lake I could say the car is
on the road the boat is on the river
again it's on that surface or or I could
even say I grew up on the East Coast so
I'm talking about the coast where I grew
up on that surface and I would say on
the East Coast so when you're talking
about the coast East West West use on
now the next few are technically not on
the surface but I I still want you to
use on so we're going to use it when
talking about being on public transit
like a bus or a plane I'm on a bus
heading downtown or I'm on a plane to
Chicago and I I know this can be a
little tricky because we use in with a
car like you're you're surrounded you're
inclosed so one way to think about it is
that you're going to use in with with
smaller vehicles and you'll use on with
larger modes of transportation but again
there's always exceptions because you're
still going to use on with a bike or
motorcycle on a bike or on a motorcycle
we use the preposition on with left or
right my house is on the left oh no no
no sorry it's on the right and we'll use
this preposition with media as well did
you see the new show on Netflix or you
may be watching this lesson on YouTube
so just just keep all of this in mind
when it comes to using on so now let's
talk about at and when to use this
preposition and and when you think about
at I want you to think of a point a
specific location or position so of
course we're going to use at when we're
referring to the position or location as
a point I I could say there's a package
at the front door we use it to refer to
an address I live at 44 Main Street and
and this can be a little confusing
because if we're just talking about the
street then we'll use on I live on Main
Street on that surface but if I give the
specific location 44 Main Street well
now we're talking about a point so we're
going to use at we use this preposition
to refer to most shops or public places
and and in this case I want you to think
about a large your point so I I could
say I'm shopping at the mall and you
would use at even if you are in the mall
because if somebody were to ask you like
hey where are you they're they're
typically asking about your location so
that's why you would use at and say I'm
shopping at the mall we use it to refer
to group activities I could ask you how
many people were at your party we also
use it with school or university I
studied at a top Notch University and
that's not really true I studied at a
party school but you get the point with
either of those we're going to use at
and we use this preposition with work or
home I could really say that right now
I'm working at home so this should give
you a better idea as to when you would
use at now let's go back to our original
sentence and I told you that all three
prepositions are correct it it really
just depends on on the context so if I
say I'm in the lake well that just means
that I'm physically in the water I'm
surrounded by the water if I were to say
I'm on the lake well now I'm talking
about the surface so it it really
implies that I'm probably on a boat and
I'm out on the water and I'm on the lake
and if I were to say I'm at the lake
well now I'm talking about a specific
location even though it's a larger area
if somebody were to ask where are you
then I would say I'm at the lake because
we're talking about location and right
now I want to test your knowledge I have
a little mini quiz for you I'm going to
give you a sentence and I want you to
think well which preposition best
completes it in on or at I'll give you a
moment to think about it and then I'll
tell you the answer so your first
sentence is I found a mistake M the
first
page which preposition would you use
the answer is on so in this case we're
talking about the surface of the page on
the first page I found a mistake on the
first page so so just keep this in mind
if we're talking about a page we're
going to use on and that is a little
tricky because remember we're going to
use in when talking about printed
materials like a book so something is on
a page but in a book here's your next
sentence she felt proud the end of her
month-long Journey what do you
think the correct answer is at she felt
proud at the end of her month-long
Journey because we're talking about that
that point that location she's at the
end of her journey and these are really
common phrases with at if we're talking
about well at the beginning of something
or at the end of something then there's
this sentence there are no public
toilets the city
center the correct answer is in there
are no public toilets in the city center
we're going to use in because we're
talking about a location within a larger
area here's a question for you do you
have anything your
pockets I I think you know this the
correct answer is in do you have
anything in your pockets where talking
about an enclosed area here's another
one we wanted to sit M the front of the
plane I'm trying to trick you a little
bit but the the correct answer is at we
wanted to sit at the front of the plane
I I told you that with public transit
you're going to use on on a plane but in
this case we're talking about a specific
location on a plane so in that case
we're going to use at at the front of
the plane how about this this one please
refer to the graph the
slide the correct answer is on please
refer to the graph on the slide so once
again we're talking about the surface of
something on a page on a slide so how'd
you do on the quiz I I want you to be
honest let me know down in the comments
because I just love hearing from you I
should have joined the interactive
English Community or I could have joined
the interactive English community or I
would have joined the interactive
English community so today I want to
talk to you about these models should
have could have and would have and
they're often referred to as modals of
lost opportunity because we use them to
describe situations that we imagine are
different now the good news is that you
have not lost this opportunity if you
would like to join the interactive
English Community there is a link down
in the description it is is a great way
for you and me to to keep in touch but
let's get back to these modals because I
I want to make sure that you are using
them correctly and I think this is very
useful because quite often we want to
describe our feelings about past
decisions so you're going to use should
have when something did not happen but
you wish that it did happen you'll use
could have when something was possible
but it did not happen and you will use
would have when something happened but
you're just a m ining a different result
now before we just Dive Right into these
modals I want to talk to you about
pronunciation and grammar because with
pronunciation these modals will often
get reduced so what's happening is that
the H in half it's it's just going to
get removed and then that vowel sound is
going to to become more of awah so we're
left with of and then the final D that
consonant sound will get linked with
that schah so it's like we have should
of could have would have all right it's
linked together and people may even
reduce it further if they're speaking
really fast and they're going to drop
that V and you just hear the schah
Shoulda Coulda would a but in general I
think it's often you're going to hear
these modals get reduced and you can
listen to me as the lesson goes on I
will I will reduce them the other thing
I want to say uh when it comes to
grammar is that with these modals you're
going to follow them with the past
participle so with with regular verbs
you're just going to to use that Ed
should have played could have called
would have walked with irregular verbs
you just need to know the past
participle should have won could have
broken would have bought now that we got
grammar and pronunciation out of the way
let let me give you a little more
context with each of these modals and
we'll begin with should have so when you
think of should have think of um regret
I I told you that something did not
happen but you wish that it did happen
so perhaps you're you're thinking about
a past decision and somebody had a good
idea or a recommendation and you did not
listen to it and you lost that
opportunity when when talking about that
situation we can then use should have so
I'm I'm constantly asking you to
subscribe to the channel and turn on
notifications so let's just let's just
imagine that uh you you don't do this
and then in the future you're going to
look back at this situation and you
might say I should have listened to Wes
uh my name's Wes by the way in case this
is your first time here uh you'd say I
really want to practice and improve my
English skills therefore I should have
subscribed to the channel and and turned
on
notifications now if you want to use
should have in the negative should not
have in that case it's like you regret
something that was wrong I should not
have yelled at my brother I should not
have cheated on the exam I should not
have eaten that and that's one that I
feel like I I probably use from time to
time yes I I should not have eaten that
bad decision now let's move on to could
have and with this modal I want you to
think of possibility that's the one word
I want you to keep in mind possibility I
I told you that with this modal
something was possible but it did not
happen I was so tired I could have
stayed in bed all day it did not happen
but I it was possible and I know that I
I give you a lot of examples so today I
have a special guest the famous Marlon
Brando is going to give you the next
example you was my brother Charlie you
should have looked out for me a little
bit oh excellent Marlin a a little bit
of review with should have so you should
have looked out for me again something
that did not happen but but he wishes
that it did happen now I will make a
quick little grammar correction you
would not say you was instead you're
going to use you were but that that's
okay let's just focus on these modal so
please continue you don't understand I
could have had class I could have been a
Contender I could have been
somebody instead of a bum so at this
moment he feels like a bum but those
other things were possible I could have
been a contender I could have been
somebody and and what he's referring to
is uh boxing he was a prize fighter I
could have been a contender and then if
we want to use the negative could not
have in that case we're just saying the
opposite and saying that something was
impossible so before before I said I was
so tired I could have stayed in bed all
day that's talking about something that
was possible if I changed that sentence
around and said I had so much work to do
I could not have stayed in bed all day
now I'm talking about something
impossible I could not have stayed in
bed because I had so much work and then
there's wood have and with W have the
word that I want you to remember and
keep in mind is different because
because when you use W have it's like
something happened but you are imagining
a different result something different
from the the real situation and often
you are going to use this modal with
that third conditional those if
statements so I could say the team would
have won the championship if their best
player had not gotten injured so in this
case I'm imagining that different result
because the real situation is that the
best player was injured and the team did
not win the championship I want to make
a quick distinction between could have
and would have because it's possible for
you to use could have in that sentence
the team could have won the championship
but again in that case we're talking
about a possibility if I say the team
would have won the championship now it's
more certain and that is the result that
that I'm imagining so it's really a
difference between possibility and
certainty could have and would have you
can also use W have to show that you
wanted to do something but you were not
able to I would have given you a ride
but my car broke down and once again I
could use the third conditional to say
the same thing same meaning I would have
given you a ride if my car had not
broken down now using it in the negative
would not have you're still imagining a
different result but instead of
imagining a result that would have
happen you're imagining that your your
real situation would not have happened
if some other things occurred I would
not have finished the project without
your help so the real situation is that
I did finish the project and I'm just
imagining a different result or I if I
had not been stuck in traffic I would
not have been late for work so it can be
a little tricky to to wrap your head
around some of these examples just know
that with would have your imagining a
different result now something you may
not have known about these modals is
that you can use them together as an
idiom should have could have would have
mostly you people would use this in
spoken English and they are going to
reduce these modals should have could
have would have or they would reduce it
more and say should have could have
would a so what what this means is that
you are dismissing someone else's regret
or worry about a past action or some
lost opportunity and you're just
dismissing that so it's kind of a cold
response and it's just unsympathetic so
let's say that we work together and
you're a little upset with me because I
I made you do more work and I'm telling
you like yeah maybe maybe I should have
worked harder so that you did not have
to do my work for me and you're a little
annoyed you're a little upset and you
would say yeah should have could have
would have uh it's already done it's too
late I've already did your work and then
I could keep going and say I know that
you did that extra work and I would have
offered to help but I was stuck in
traffic and once again you could dismiss
my regret and say should have could have
would have I don't care about your
excuse I'm still angry should have could
have would have all right you can't
change the past so that idiom is a fun
way to wrap up the lesson I hope you
learn something new and I hope you have
a better understanding of these modals
should have could have and would have
let's talk about the difference between
you used to and used to now they they
can be a little confusing not not
necessarily when speaking but when
trying to determine well which one you
should use in writing and I say they're
not really they're not really confused
when speaking because the pronunciation
is the same and I will come back to that
a little bit later on but for right now
let's uh let's focus on used to because
this is definitely the most common one
that you are going to use when speaking
or writing and I think well used to
alone can be confusing because well
dictionaries may look at it different
ways Cambridge has used to as a modal
verb Mariam Webster says that used to is
an adjective as well as a verb McMillan
dictionary has used to as a modal verb
Oxford Learners dictionary also says
that used to is a modal verb and
dictionary.com has it as an adjective as
well as a verb let's first make a
distinction between used to as a modal
verb or verb and used to as an adjective
now the the grammar is different the
part of speech but also the meaning is
different so right now let's let's get
rid of the adjective forget about the
adjective let's just focus on used to as
a verb or modal verb and I keep saying
verb modal verb as you saw some of the
dictionaries uh have it listed
differently and that is because in some
ways used to acts like a modal verb and
in other ways it it really doesn't but
whether or not used to uh is considered
a verb or a modal verb the meaning is
the same and let's talk about the
meaning because that is very important
and what this means is it's talking
about something that was repeatedly done
in the past or or even a situation that
existed in the past but the the thing is
not done anymore or the situation does
not not exist anymore today in the
present so I could will give you some
examples talking about myself I could
say I used to live in South Korea that
that is true that is a situation that
existed in the past and when I lived in
South Korea I used to run uh around this
Lake twice a a week bum Moon Lake I used
to run around it twice a week and that
is something that I had done repeatedly
except for the winter uh in the winter
it was a bit too cold so during those
months uh I used to sit on my ass I
could say that sometimes not always in
those sentences used to is a modal verb
it is a helping verb and I already told
you that it has some similarities to
modal verbs like it it it has one form
it's not conjugated so I said I used to
live in South Korea if I changed the
subject to he it it's not going to
change he used to live in South Korea
but you used to it it can act
differently from your average modal verb
uh for example with modal verbs you
you're not going to follow it with to so
I can say something well like I can swim
or it will rain or you should write to
me in the comments I I just love hearing
from you you should write to me in the
comments now with all of those sentences
we have the modal verb and then we
follow it
with the infinitive the base verb there
is no to an exception is used to I used
to run around the lake and well even if
I want to change the subject and talk
about myself in the third person to show
that the form is not going to change I
could say in Winter Wes used to sit
around on his ass but sometimes all
right so two is going to come before the
base verb and that's why I think if
you're if you're trying trying to think
about it I think it's best to consider
used to as just one phrase try to think
about it together as one phrase used to
questions and negative statements also
make used to different from other modal
verbs because if well if we're talking
about questions typically we can just
use the modal verb to create a question
can he swim will it rain and if we're
talking about negative statements then
you're you're just going to use not with
with a typical modal verb uh he cannot
swim or it won't rain but this is not
the case with used to of course used to
it just has to be different than all the
other modal verbs and I think this is
also when people might say okay it acts
more like a verb because if we're
talking about questions used to it
refers to the past so with questions
you're going to use did and if you're
going to make a negative statement then
you're going to use did not so if we're
going to use it uh as a question I could
ask you did you use to study English and
if I want to say a negative statement
then I could say well I didn't used to
have hair like this um and that's
because I used to shave my head but more
importantly than my shaved head is that
you now see that used to has changed the
spelling has changed to used to and this
is what I want you to remember if we're
talking about questions and negative
statements you are going to use used to
and you're going to spell it us I told
you that the only distinction is in
writing because well the pronunciation
is the same whether you're saying used
to or used to it's the same
pronunciation the D and the T they blend
together to create one sound so yeah the
pronunciation it's really the same
nobody's going to know if if if you end
up making a mistake because you're still
just going to say used to or used to and
now that you have a perfect
understanding of used to being used as a
modal verb slash verb let's now talk
about used to being used as an adjective
so the the first thing that I want to
tell you is the meaning I told you that
the meaning is different and what this
means is that well it's referring to
something that you are familiar with or
that you are accustomed to and it often
follows the verb to be so I could say
well I am used to hot weather all right
I'm just it's just something that I'm
used to I'm not used to cold weather
it's just something I'm not that
familiar with and in this case because
used to is an adjective it's not going
to change whether we're talking about
questions or negative statements you are
always going to spell used to like this
used uh another thing that I want to
tell you about used to as an adjective
just giving you another example I do not
think any of us were used to staying
inside for so long during the pandemic
and I think that's true I think we can
all relate to that sentence and the
thing the thing that I wanted to point
out with this sentence is that you you
may often follow used to with a Jared
and you're used to doing something like
I'm used to taking the bus in the
morning or I'm not used to working late
but even though we were not used to
staying inside during the pandemic we
had to get used to it and I just gave
you an example right there of it being
used with another verb that is not the
verb to be and that I think is also it's
a common usage to get used to doing
something or even people using it as an
imperative statement giving a command
and you're telling somebody get used to
it but just remember used to as an
adjective has a different meaning than
used to as a modal verb or verb that's
the one thing that I really want you to
remember from this lesson and I yes it's
confusing but I think over time the more
you listen the more you practice you're
just going to get used to it I have
studied English I have been studying
English are these sentences the same or
are they different let's find out I want
to help you improve your grammar because
I want to talk about the difference
between two verb tenses the present
perfect tense and the present perfect
continuous and these two verb tenses can
confuse many English Learners who may
not be sure uh about how and when to use
them as well as if there are any
differences between these two tenses so
before we talk about the differences
between these two tenses I I want to
focus on how and when we use them and
let's first begin with the present
perfect tense which on its own can be
very confusing because there are many
languages that do not even have a
present perfect tense so I I want to
first begin with how you're going to
form the present perfect you're going to
have a helping verb and a main verb the
helping verb is going to be have and the
main verb is going to be the past
participle and we often use the present
perfect to talk about a finished action
in the past at an unspecified time we
don't know when it's happened and it may
have happened once or even more than
once so let's look at this sentence
right here I've been to China there
there I am right there again we have the
helping verb have plus the past
participle Ben it is the past participle
of the verb to be and you know that this
happened in the past it's finished but
you don't know when it's an unspecified
time I've been to China or I could say
well I've been to Barcelona twice this
happened in the past we don't know when
but we know that it happened more than
once there were two different trips to
Barcelona one thing that I want to say
about the present perfect tense is that
when you use it the the result is really
what matters it's like you're more
interested in the result than the action
and I will come back to this when I talk
to you about the present perfect
continuous so let's let's think this
situation right here I'll I'll I'll use
a question and say have you hit the like
button all right this is a question in
the present perfect the the helping verb
have the past participle hit that's our
main verb have you hit the like button
and again I I'm really more interested
in that result and I really am and I
hope you would say yes I have hit the
like button it happened in the past
sometime between when the video started
and right now and if you have let me
know write that to me in the comments
just say yes I have hit the like button
practice writing using the present
perfect and then I will tell you that
you are awesome all right so with all of
those examples that I just gave you we
were talking about finished actions in
the past so let's now move to the
present perfect continuous and let's
look at how this verb tense is formed
again we're going to use the helping
verb have plus the past participle of
the verb to be which is been have been
plus our main verb with an ing at the
end all right so in this case it's like
we have two helping verbs have been and
then the main verb and we use the
present perfect continuous to talk about
an unfinished action that started in the
past it has continued to right now which
is the present and then it will likely
continue into the future so I could say
well even like right now I've been
teaching this lesson it's an unfinished
action it started in the past it has
continued until right now and it it's
going to continue into the future and I
hope you keep watching now one thing
that I will say about the present
perfect continuous is that when you use
this verb tense the focus is more on the
action because something is continuing
so with the present perfect tense the
focus is on the result with the present
perfect continuous the focus is more on
the action one thing that I want to
remind you of and the reason why I'm so
close is because I want you to remember
this is that there are many non-action
verbs that that you should not use in
the continuous tense and I'm putting a
list of these verbs up here right now so
you you should not use these verbs with
the present perfect continuous but again
with English there people are always
breaking these rules especially in
spoken English but just to give you an
example the if I give you a sentence
like oh I have an iPhone I'm talking
about uh ownership possession I could
use it in the present perfect tense and
say yeah I've had an iPhone for a long
time uh it's an iPhone 6 so it's pretty
old but I could not use it in the
continuous tense and say I've been
having an iPhone that just sounds
awkward so just keep that in mind there
are many non-action verbs that you
should just avoid using in the
continuous tense so now let's look at
some differences between the present
perfect tense and the present perfect
continuous and I want to make some quick
comparisons so you can see a clear
difference between these two verb tenses
especially how the focus is different so
let's look at these two sentences right
here we have redecorated our home and we
have been redecorating our home the
sentence in the present perfect we have
redecorated our home it's talking about
an action that started in the past and
it's now finished we don't know when it
started we don't know when itend ended
but the focus is on that result that yes
it's it's finished the home it's it has
been redecorated with the present
perfect continuous we're talking about
an unfinished action it started in the
past and it's still going on right now
so the focus is on that action that
continuing action also and this may help
you know well when you should use the
present perfect continuous if we're
talking about an unfinished action that
started in the recent past people may
use the verb tense with the words
recently or lately so I could say well
recently we've been redecorating our
home or lately we've been redecorating
our home that tells me that this action
it's started in the recent past it's a
continuing action that's gone until now
and yes it's probably going to continue
into the future here are another couple
of sentences I have thought about buying
a new phone or I've been thinking about
buying a new phone so with the present
perfect it suggests that okay I I
thought about this in the past and then
maybe I decided Well no not to buy a new
phone it's just something I thought
about and then I stopped thinking about
it and as you can see I still have this
old iPhone 6 and maybe I just made the
decision not to buy one if I use the
present perfect continuous and say well
I've been thinking about buying a new
phone that that suggest that I have not
made a decision not yet I'm still
thinking about it and maybe maybe in the
future I'm going to make a decision and
upgrade and get a new phone because yes
this iPhone 6 it's pretty old and then
we get to these two sentences right here
the sentences that you have been waiting
for this entire lesson I have studied
English versus I have been studying
English and the difference between these
two sentences is nothing well pretty
much nothing because they are
interchangeable you can use them and
they they basically mean the same thing
because with both of these sentences
we're talking about an unfinished action
and I know this can be a bit confusing
because you're probably thinking like
wait a second Wes you told us that the
present perfect tense is used to talk
about finished actions at an unspecified
time in the past yes that is true but
you can also use the present perfect
tense to talk about an unfinished action
that started in the past and and it's
gone on for a duration of time or since
a point in time and those are two key
words that I really want you to remember
and be aware of because we often use the
present perfect with those words for and
since so I could say I have studied
English for three years a duration of
time or I could say I've studied English
since
2018 both of those sentences mean the
exact same thing the only difference is
for and since I could also say this
using the present perfect continuous
I've been studying English for 3 years
or I've been studying English since 2018
so if somebody were to ask you how long
have you been learning English you could
respond with any one of those sentences
it's it's really your pick there there's
not much difference between them but
there is a very there there is very
slight difference of course I didn't
want to I didn't want to disappoint you
I wanted to really get into details here
so I was saving it for the very end and
let let's talk about those slight
differences right now which is going to
help you kind of well not only improve
your comprehension but your overall
fluency as well so the good news is is
that when the present perfect and the
present perfect continuous are basically
interchangeable and they pretty much
mean the same thing we're only talking
about a handful of verbs we're talking
about the verbs like teach play learn
study and work all right so those are
five verbs that when you're using either
verb tense they're fairly
interchangeable and they mean the same
thing but again there there may be a
slight difference in a certain context
situation it may be more appropriate to
use one over the other so let let's look
at these sentences right here we've
lived in Budapest for 4 years and we've
been living in Budapest since 2017 so
just looking at them generally speaking
they're very similar they're they pretty
much the same you could use them
interchangeably but there there may be a
slight difference when talking about the
permanent versus temporary so let me
give you a couple of other sentences
that I think are probably a little
easier to understand when I talk about
the difference between permanent and
temporary so you're more likely to use
the present perfect tense when when
talking about an unfinished action
that's more permanent and you're more
likely to use the present perfect
continuous when you're you're talking
about an unfinished action that's
perhaps temporary so I could say well
I've worked for the company for 25 years
I I'm using the present perfect it's
unfinished because I still work for the
company and and it's more permanent it
it makes you think well I'm not looking
for a job I'm not going to change jobs
I'm just giving you this information
I've worked for the company for 25 years
if I I say this that well I usually work
downtown
but I've been working at home ever since
the pandemic started in this case I'm
I'm referring to an action that started
in the past it's unfinished because I'm
still working at home but it's only
temporary it makes you think that in the
future then perhaps I I'm not going to
be working at home anymore I'm talking
about a temporary situation I've been
working at home ever since the pandemic
started so hopefully that makes it a
little easier to understand the
difference when I say permanent versus
temporary and you could even apply this
to other sentences that you may use
interchangeably so those two sentences
that I told you a moment ago we have
lived in Budapest for four years or
we've been living in Budapest since
2017 in general uh you could use either
one but again if you use the present
perfect if I say we've lived in Budapest
since
2017 then it it's a more permanent
situation it might make you think well
uh we're not currently looking to change
the place that we live that we're
probably going to stay in Budapest if I
say it using the present perfect
continuous the focus is on that action
that that we're we're still living here
it's unfinish but it makes you think it
may only be temporary because in the
future that that's going to change if
the focus is on that action in all
likelihood that action is going to
change in the future in which case we
would well will move somewhere else and
that this is only temporary and if you
were to ask me I would say the second
one we've been living in Budapest since
2017 because this is probably not going
to be our permanent home in the future
we will likely move somewhere else so
even though with those five verbs work
play Live teach study you can use these
verb tenses
interchangeably you you could read a
little more information
into it if you want to think about
whether something is going to be more
permanent or if something is temporary
let's see how well you know your grammar
so I'm going to give you a question I'll
give you a moment to think of the answer
and then I will tell you the answer and
explain why it is correct so let's begin
with our first question right here if
somebody were to say whatever you do
don't leave me alone talking to Wes he's
so
okay how would you complete that
sentence are you going to use a bored or
B
boring so I hope that you chose B boring
that is the correct answer he's so
boring so this can be a little confusing
the difference between Ed and ing
adjectives in short you're going to use
Ed adjectives to talk about the way you
feel you're going to use ing adjectives
to describe uh a situation a thing or
just the a person's characteristic in
this case we're talking about a
characteristic of mine that I'm boring
and this is just an example of course I
hope that you do not think that I am
boring I would rather you say that maybe
I am amusing or interesting or charming
I would take any of those ing adjectives
here's your next challenging question if
I had taken my medicine this morning M
right
now are you going to use a I would have
felt sick or B I wouldn't feel
sick so I said it's challenging and
difficult because we're talking about a
mixed conditional which means the answer
is B I wouldn't feel sick if I had taken
my medicine this morning I wouldn't feel
sick right now in this case we're mixing
the second and third conditional so we
have an imaginary condition because
we're imagining a different past which
is the third conditional if I had taken
my medicine this morning so I I did not
take it and that leads us in to a
hypothetical result in the present I
wouldn't feel sick right now another way
to think about it is with these two
statements right here I didn't take my
medicine this morning therefore I I feel
sick right now
I I'm saying the same thing with that
mixed conditional if I had taken my
medicine this morning I wouldn't feel
sick right now here is your next
question I don't
know what are you going to say where I
should go or where should I go this is
is something I noticed that many
Learners commonly confus so that what
we're talking about that blank is really
a noun clause which means the answer is
a I don't know where I should go so a
noun clause it's a dependent clause that
has a subject and a verb and just know
that it quite often noun Clauses are
going to begin with words like that or
how or those wh words like who what when
why or where and then we have this
question right here the movie M at 8:00
p.m. or you could say theie movie M at
8:00 how are you going to complete that
sentence are you going to use a will
start B starts or C is
starting so for this one I I guarantee
that you got the correct answer and that
is because all of them are correct it's
a little bit of a trick question you
could use will start to talk about
things that that will happen in the
future you could use start the present
simple to refer to scheduled events in
the future and you could also use is
starting the present continuous when
when talking about future Arrangements
even though all are correct it really
just depends on the context when
deciding which one you're going to use
so let me try to give you some context
and tell you how my mind works as to how
I would choose which one of these so I I
think overwhelmingly I am going to use
the present simple and just say starts
if somebody were to ask me hey what
time's the movie I would say the movie
starts at 8:00 I would probably use is
starting if I kind of want to emphasize
and highlight the time in that case
maybe I'm trying to say well okay I want
you to be there all right don't be late
just remember the movie is starting at
8:00 so when you use the present
continuous you're really referring to
that point in time so I'm really trying
to make that clear the movie started at
8:00 and then to be honest I would
probably use will start less frequently
I might use it if I'm thinking about
maybe other things that are also going
to happen in the future if I were
thinking to myself well um I'll have to
eat dinner before the movie and then the
movie will start at 8:00 and after the
movie um I'll have to go home because I
have to work tomorrow so hopefully that
gives you a little more context as to
when you might use these different
answers here is your next question I
recommend that everyone watching this
video that like button all right are you
going to say hit that like button or hit
that like button so once again this can
be a bit tricky the answer is a hit
we're talking about the subjunctive mood
and we use this to talk about desires
wishes or suggestions now grammatically
speaking in that noun clause that's
right we're talking about another noun
clause that everyone watching this video
hit that like button in that noun clause
you're going to use the base verb when
we're talking about the subjunctive mood
and this can be a little tricky if if
the subject is perhaps in the third
person like he she or it or if we're
talking about an indefinite pronoun like
everyone now in spoken English people
may not always follow follow this rule
so if I'm going to use the subjunctive
mood I I could say something like I wish
I were faster I wish I were taller I
wish I were living in a big beautiful
home along the coast overlooking the
ocean so in spoken English you may hear
somebody say I wish I was taller I wish
I were taller I wish I was taller it can
be confusing but you will hear both in
spoken English next we have this
question I M English for several months
and I plan to continue improving my
language skills are you going to use a
have studied or B have been
studying so we're talking about the
difference between the present perfect
and the present perfect continuous all
right I hope that you chose B have been
studying I've been studying English for
several months and I plan to continue
improving my language skills so b i it
is I think it's the correct answer you
could use a but I think B is the better
answer and and let me explain so the
present perfect and the present perfect
continuous it can be confusing because
they they are sometimes interchangeable
especially if we're talking about an
unfinished action which in this case we
are but you're going to use the present
perfect continuous more specifically
when you're talking about an action
that's started in the past it's
continued to the present and then will
likely continue into the future and it's
the second part of this sentence and I
plan to continue improving my language
skills that is why I say B have been
studying is the better answer here's the
next question M making progress we could
not finish before the deadline are you
going to use a in spite of or B
although okay so I hope that you chose a
in spite of in spite of making progress
we could not finish before the deadline
so both in spite of and although they
they're referring to contrasting ideas
the the only real difference is the way
that you use them and I'm talking about
the structure of the sentence after in
spite of we're going to use a noun a
Jaren which is that ing form or a
pronoun after although we're going to
use a subject and a verb so in our
sentence you have making that is a Jaren
so you're going to use in spite of in
spite of making progress now I I could
use although and say the same thing and
use a subject and a verb and I would say
although we made progress we could not
finish before the deadline so just
remember that in spite of making
progress is a phrase whereas although we
made progress is a clause they're really
the same it it just depends on how you
want to structure the sentence here's
your next question talking about
prepositions last night we left M New
York City it was a long flight but we're
really excited to see the Big Apple are
you going to complete this sentence with
two from or four which preposition
completes this sentence last night we
left M New York city so the answer is
C4 last night we left for New York City
now I know prepositions can be tricky
and the best thing you can do is just
practice them like we're doing right now
so let me explain this the second
sentence that is important it was a long
flight but we're excited to see the Big
Apple that tells us that the destination
is New York City therefore we're not
going to use from and normally if we're
talking about a place you would go to a
place but our verb is leave you're not
going to use to when the verb is leave
you're going to use for if you're
talking about going to a destination you
leave for someplace last night we left
for New York City your next question M
did you invite to the
party are you going to use a who or be
whom the correct answer is be whom whom
did you invite to the party I I would
say that a is also correct in spok in
English and I will I will talk about
that in just a moment but who and whom
can be confusing but think of it this
way you're going to use who when the
unknown is referring to the subject and
you'll use whom when the unknown is
referring to the object so all we have
to do is take our question and change it
into a statement and I could say well I
invited him to the party or I invited
her to the party him and her those are
objects so in that case I'm going to use
whom whom did you invite to the party
now I said that a is correct in spoken
English because well yeah people just
don't follow the rules I think it's
quite common in in places like the
United States which is where I'm from
most people will use who instead of whom
and I am somebody who also does this if
I were to ask this question I would just
say who did you invite to the party so
just keep that in mind that this is
another one of those rules in spoken
English that people will tend to break
who versus whom here is another question
I bought a gift for my little girl it's
this um this little stuff puppy right
here I hope she enjoys M
gift are you going to use a the or no
article which one I hope that you chose
be the I hope she enjoys the gift that
is the correct answer so really what
we're talking about is the rule of first
mention and what this rule says is that
the first time you mention a a singular
noun you're going to use the indefinite
article a or an and the second time that
you mention that same noun you're going
to use the definite article the' because
it is now known so this is a very useful
and important rule to follow if you are
writing a story or telling a story
because you want to make sure you get
those articles correct I hope that you
enjoyed the gift of this grammar lesson
and if you did then you can give me a
gift and that is the gift of writing to
me in the comments because I just love
hearing from you thank you so much for
watching and I will see you next time so
long